docs(ci): new ci features in spinnaker (#2105)
spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io: guides/developer/extending/integrate-your-CI/index.md

---
layout: single
title:  "Integrate your CI"
sidebar:
  nav: guides
---

{% include toc %}

> At Netflix, we built CI integrations to enable features like CI in Spinnaker, fetch artifact metadata and more. You can see the full list of CI features [here](/guides/user/managed-delivery/CI-features).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At Netflix, we built CI integrations to enable features like the Builds view in Spinnaker, fetching artifact metadata and more. You can see the full list of CI features [here](/guides/user/managed-delivery/CI-features).
```

> This guide will explain how to add an integration to your own CI provider, so you'll be able to enjoy the new features we provide.

Reviewer: Developers won't build an integration (only) for their own use, but for Spinnaker users who leverage that CI provider.

```suggestion
This guide will explain how to add an integration to other CI providers, so that users leveraging those providers can enjoy the new features we provide.
```

> ## CI view in Spinnaker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Builds view in Spinnaker
```
Or:
```suggestion
## Viewing CI details in Spinnaker
```

> We recently added the option to see CI details in Spinnaker, in a new `Builds` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recently added the option to see CI details in Spinnaker, in a new "Builds" tab.
```

It looks like this:
{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./ci-view.png"
%}

This is a new tab that can be accessed from the main Spinnaker UI.

> The UI code (in deck) is calling `gate` service to fetch information, and `gate` is just calling `igor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI code (in `deck`) is calling the `gate` service to fetch information, and `gate` is just proxying the call to `igor`.
```

If you wish to use it, this is what you'll need to do:

> 0. Make sure you are using [gate](https://github.com/spinnaker/gate). Here's the [CiController](https://github.com/spinnaker/gate/blob/master/gate-web/src/main/groovy/com/netflix/spinnaker/gate/controllers/CiController.java) the UI is calling (no need to do any actions here).

Reviewer: Is this relevant at all? I don't think you can have a Spinnaker installation without gate, can you?

Author: I'm not sure, but is there harm in mentioning it?

Reviewer: Any time you include information that's not relevant to the discussion, there's a potential for confusion, that's why I asked. I'd suggest removing.

> 1. Create a fork to [igor](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Fork [igor](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor)
```

> 2. Create a new service which implements the [CiBuildService](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiBuildService.java), and contians two endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a new service in `igor` which implements the [`CiBuildService`](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiBuildService.java) interface, and contains two endpoints:
```

- `ci/builds` which returns the `GenericBuild` object.

> - `ci/builds/{buildId}/output` which returns the build's log by providing a build number, in a map format:

Reviewer: This doesn't make sense, as that interface and implementing classes are not controllers. These should be the names of the methods you need to implement.

Author: These are the methods needs to be implemented. They are in a service class and not an interface.

Reviewer: These are not method signatures, though. They are URI paths...

```

> {"log": "...."}

Reviewer: ❓

```

- Example: your service implementation should be something like:
```

>  public class YourCompanyNameCIService implements CiBuildService[..]

Reviewer: It seems you're a bit hung up on the idea that most companies will have their own proprietary CI service, and/or developers who might write an integration, which is very unlikely. My guess is that most will be using Jenkins or another popular open-source or commercial CI system. My expectation was that someone might contribute for example a `JenkinsCiService` to OSS, which everyone could then use.

```suggestion
 public class SomeCiService implements CiBuildService[..]
```

Author: That makes sense, thanks for the suggestion!

```

> These endpoints are called by the [CiController](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiController.java).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These endpoints are called by the [`CiController`](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiController.java).
```

> Once both of these endpoints will be implemented, you'll be able to configure your application to show CI information in Spinnaker!

Reviewer: Again, we can't assume developers are the same as end users or operators at other companies...

```suggestion
Once both of these endpoints are implemented, it should be possible for installations using that implementation to show CI information in Spinnaker! If you contribute a new implementation to the project, make sure to include documentation for operators explaining how to enable and configure it in their installation.
```

> ## Managed Delivery Artifacts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Managed Delivery artifacts
```

> You can read about it more [here](/guides/user/managed-delivery/CI-features).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read about how the CI integration enriches the Managed Delivery experience with artifacts [here](/guides/user/managed-delivery/CI-features).
```

> ### Publishing a new artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Detecting a new published artifact
```

Here is an example of a Docker artifact event tracked by `keel`:
```
Received artifact published event: ArtifactPublishedEvent(artifacts=[PublishedArtifact(name=mce/agent, type=DOCKER,
  reference=dockerRegistry:v2:testregistry:mce/agent, version=h2012.2626f5f, customKind=false, location=testregistry, artifactAccount=null, provenance=null, uuid=null, metadata={date=1607111907158, registry=testregistry, fullname=mce/agent, tag=tag, commitId=2626f5f, buildNumber=2012, branch=tags/v1.2.0^0}
```

In order to get additional metadata for each tracked artifact (such as build and git details), we've created a convention that the `buildNumber` and `commitId` will be part of the artifact metadata object, regardless of the artifact type.
In this example, we will query our CI provider to get metadata for build number `2012` and commit id `2626f5f`.

### Getting artifact metadata

Detailed metadata (like commit message, author, timestamp) is visible in the Environments view in the UI, by clicking on an artifact version.

In order to get the metadata information, you'll have to plug in your CI provider.

> `keel` [buildService](https://github.com/spinnaker/keel/blob/master/keel-igor/src/main/kotlin/com/netflix/spinnaker/keel/igor/BuildService.kt) is calling `igor` to fetch this information. It uses the endpoint `<igorBaseURL>/ci/builds`, which looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`keel`'s [`BuildService`](https://github.com/spinnaker/keel/blob/master/keel-igor/src/main/kotlin/com/netflix/spinnaker/keel/igor/BuildService.kt) calls `igor` to fetch this information. It uses the endpoint `<igorBaseURL>/ci/builds`, which looks like:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```kotlin
```

  @GET("/ci/builds")
  @Headers("Accept: application/json")
  suspend fun getArtifactMetadata(
    @Query("commitId") commitId: String,
    @Query("buildNumber") buildNumber: String,
    @Query("projectKey") projectKey: String? = null,
    @Query("repoSlug") repoSlug: String? = null,
    @Query("completionStatus") completionStatus: String? = null
  ): List<Build>?
```

> At Netflix, we pass as input the `commitId` and `buildNumber`. Those are mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At Netflix, we pass as input the `commitId` and `buildNumber`. Those are mandatory to uniquely identify an artifact across repositories.
```

> The response contains a list of [builds](https://github.com/spinnaker/keel/blob/master/keel-igor/src/main/kotlin/com/netflix/spinnaker/keel/igor/model/Build.kt) (we pick the first from the list), which looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains a list of [builds](https://github.com/spinnaker/keel/blob/master/keel-igor/src/main/kotlin/com/netflix/spinnaker/keel/igor/model/Build.kt) (we pick the first from the list), which look like:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```kotlin
```

data class Build(
  val building: Boolean = false,
  val fullDisplayName: String? = null,
  val name: String? = null,
  val number: Int = 0,
  val duration: Long? = null,
  /** String representation of time in nanoseconds since Unix epoch  */
  val timestamp: String? = null,

  val result: Result? = null,
  val url: String? = null, //url to get build details from the CI provider (like jenkins)
  val id: String? = null, //build uid

  val scm: List<GenericGitRevision>? = null,
  val properties: Map<String, Any?>? = null
)
```

> The `build` object is a mirror object of [GenericBuild](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-core/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/build/model/GenericBuild.java) in `igor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Build` object is a mirror of [`GenericBuild`](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-core/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/build/model/GenericBuild.java) in `igor`.
```

> Note: if you already implemented the `/ci/builds` endpoint as descries above, jump to #3 and you are done!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: if you already implemented the `/ci/builds` endpoint as described above, jump to step 3 and you are done!
```

If you are interested in plugging your CI provider, you'll need to do the following:
1. Create a fork to `igor`
2. Implement the `ci/builds` endpoint, and return a `GenericBuild` response (which is converted to `Build` object above).
- [Controller endpoints](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiController.java)
- [Generic build service](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiBuildService.java)
- Example: your service implementation should be somthing like:
```
 public class YourCompanyNameCIService implements CiBuildService[...]
```

> 3. Make sure the artifacts being sent to `keel` contains the `buildNumber` and `commitId`.

Reviewer: This is redundant with the section above, right? Consider just adding a link here in a sentence like "If you're interested in plugging in a new CI provider, follow the steps in section [link] above".

### See code changes between deployments

> The logic of generating a comparable link is done in `keel`: [ArtifactVersionLinks](https://github.com/spinnaker/keel/blob/master/keel-core/src/main/kotlin/com/netflix/spinnaker/keel/artifacts/ArtifactVersionLinks.kt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logic to generate a link to compare commits is done in `keel`: [`ArtifactVersionLinks`](https://github.com/spinnaker/keel/blob/master/keel-core/src/main/kotlin/com/netflix/spinnaker/keel/artifacts/ArtifactVersionLinks.kt).
```

> Note: this supports only `stash` at the moment. We'll appreciate contributions for other SCMs!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: this supports only Stash/BitBucket at the moment. We'll appreciate contributions for other SCMs!
```

### Surface build information in the UI

A new section called "Pre-deployment" is now available in the UI. This section will surface pre-deployment steps like baking (for Debian packages only) or building.

> By clicking on "See details", you'll be taken to the CI view (see above), or a default job log which you can provide as a part of your implementation (in the `url` field in `Build` object, see above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking on "See details", you'll be taken to the Builds view (see above), or a default job log which you can provide as a part of your implementation (in the `url` field in `Build` object, see above).
```
